So in this video we're going to
find out about Using BlueprintReadOnly to expose C++
properties to Blueprint. What we'll be able to do then is
find a TankMovementComponent pointer, like this, and then, call a method directly
from our axes. And this means that, when we play the game,
I'll be able to push the left stick forward and back, and I will be able to get through the TankMovmentComponent
a value as to the vertical position of that stick. So let's go and see how that works!
So we have our architecture, what we want to do now is wire it up.
Ultimately, we're going to have the tank blueprint in the Input section,
in here. In fact, while I'm here, why don't I comment this as the
Input or Movement Input Binding,
like so. On the left-hand side of the tank blueprint I'm just making
it clear what we're doing. What I want to do is, I want to add down here what a
binding from a new input, which is going to be the left stick moving back and
forward. For IntendMoveForward. Then, that's going to call a method inside
the TankMovementComponent, called IntendMoveForward(). In fact, all of this is
going to work very much like the TankAimingComponent, including the way that the Movement
Component is going to end up here on the Tank.
So over in our TankMovementComponent, let's create ourselves a new method!
I'm going to make this method a void method called IntendMove
Forward(). Now that is going to communicate the movement
desire, the question is what does it take in? Well it should take a float, because it's going to be between
-1 and +1, and I'm going to call that float the throw which is the
control throw, it's how far forward or back the control is moved.
OK, it's going to be in the public section. Oops, [Laughs] in the public section because
it's a very top level requirement of the TankMovementComponent, you can tell it to
Intend to MoveForward. Fantastic! Now the next question is, how do I decorate
this? Well I'm actually going to leave that to you, because we're going to want it to end up in the blueprint. It's
going to be several steps to make this end up, properly, in the blueprint,
and I'm going to give the more advanced of you a fairly good challenge in trying to
make that happen, but in the meanwhile, let's just flesh out the implementation
of IntendMoveForward. So I'm going to grab the class name
over here and just decorate away.
OK, now what I'm going to do is go get the log entry that
must be somewhere else in the project, and I'm just going to move
it around. Not this one! In fact, we don't need this one anymore. In the TankPlayerController.cpp,
in the BeginPlay, we don't need to be doing any of this
stuff about whether things are attached or not. The attachment seems to be working, so we
can get rid of the UE_LOG. And then, I'm going to move the UE_LOG from the
TankTrack.cpp's SetThrottle method. I'm just going to take
that and pop it here in the implementation of this IntendMove
Forward. I'm going to ditch the name and just say
something like "Intend
move forward throw:
%f" to format the float), and
Throw. So what I'm hoping is we will be able to get to the point
where this IntendMoveForward() method is called, and it's going to
be called directly off an Input Binding, which we'll make
straight into IntendMoveForward. The point is, right now, if you compile, let's go ahead and compile
before I put in a challenge. You'll find that there are several steps you need to go
for or through to actually make this IntendMoveForward method appear
here. It's not just a single step. Now I'm going to give you a recipe, in the challenge slide, as how to
to do it, and I want you to really think and look at the Tank.cpp and Tank.h and think
about how this TankAimingComponent got added and what we did. And then, there's one
extra step, which as I get to say, I will give you the hint inside the
challenge slide. But what I'm saying is that, right now, this IntendMoveForward is not
here, we don't even have a MovementComponent. Alright, so that's what we're going to
want to do. Let's give you the challenge! This is a challenge slightly more for people who are very
comfortable with the course so far. If you're struggling a little bit, this challenge may
be too much, all in one go, but get as much of it done as you can. And then, this just gives the more
advanced people an opportunity to push themselves and the less advanced people an opportunity to do
some of it but not necessarily all of it. So let's get to the challenge!
OK, what I want you to do is bind some input for forward and backward.
That's relatively simple, it's actually just one axis, it's the Left
Thumb-Stick Y axis. So it's a single binding, call it move
forward if you like. Make the method BlueprintCallable.
So this IntendMoveForward() method, that we've just declared and defined,
I just want you to make it BlueprintCallable. Then,
you need to make the TankMovementComponent a default on the tank.
It needs to add itself to the tank, in the tank's constructor, automatically
as a sub-object, just like we add the AimingComponent.
Then, you need to make a protected variable on the tank, to store the pointer to
that movement component, in the Protected section. And
finally, and this is the bit that will make it visible in the blueprint, is that you need to make that protected
pointer in the tank's header file, BlueprintReadOnly.
And nearly all of this you've done before, the BlueprintReadOnly bit
you've not used before. I will give you another hint which is... Oh, by the way,
you will know that  you've succeeded the challenge, because when you've pushed
the left stick forward or back or if you've mapped in to the keyboard, same thing, you'll get + and -1
coming out from that log. Now a couple of resources for you,
they're not brilliant. The top one is better, number 2 is better. Number
one is just the community site, which is awesome! But number 2 is a blog
about creating C++ variables for use in Blueprint, worth a look, and then, there's
also a link to BlueprintCallable in the docs, that's in your slides for you. There's your challenge!
Oops, no it's not! There's your challenge! Go ahead, pause the
video, and have a go at that now!
OK welcome back! Let's go through this one step at a time! So I said bind some input
for forward and backward, so let's bind some input for forward and backward.
That would be in the Project Settings, it will be under Input, and
we will have... If I want to leave the Project Settings up on the screen as a tab!
And then, we're going to have an Axis Mapping, I'm going to call it Move
Forward, and I'm going to bind it
to the gamepad's Left Thumb-Stick Y axis, with a scale
of 1. Great! So in the tank blueprint, we should
now have, if we search for "forward", a MoveForward event. So
that is that event fired, with an output value of Axis value, when I
move the stick forward. Very straightforward stuff so far. OK, now we need to get the Movement
Component adding itself to the tank. So I'm going to Save everything, as we're going to be messing around with pointers,
because Unreal does have a habit of crashing when we do that. Let's go look at the tank
and see how it does it. Well firstly, the tank
has this idea of a TankAimingComponent,
so we're going to need to do the same thing with a UTankMovementComponent,
somewhere to store the pointer.
Yeah, so UTankMovementComponent. I'm going to copy the word Movement
because that's what's different. Now, is it going to know what  a UTankMovementComponent
is? No. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to
forward declare that Movement
Component, just so that this guy here knows what it is. In a moment, VisualStudio will catch
up, and it'll go OK, well I've got a forward declaration, an empty class, I can at least
deal with the name MovementComponent. And then, over in the Tank implementation
file, we're actually going to need to #include
"TankMovement
Component.h".
OK, just like we included the TankAimingComponent. Then, right here,
just like we added a default sub-object for the
TankAimingComponent, we're going to do the same thing for the TankMovement
Component. Again, copying Movement,
replacing Aiming with Movement everywhere
we see it. OK, let's test just that for now!
Let's go ahead and Compile our code!
I'll leave the code on the screen for you. So we've just done exactly the same thing as we did before,
we've just done DefaultSubobject of the MovementComponent. What I'm hoping when this compiles,
if this compiles, is that on the left-hand side here, the tank blueprint or at least
wherever your Component list is.. Components list. You see we have
a crash and that's not uncommon. What I'm hoping is that the TankMovingComponent will move
in here. So this is basically because we made a fairly fundamental
change to that blueprint and Unreal just throws a wobbly in
those instances, but you're saving regularly and you're not worried about these
things right, it happens occasionally. So here's the tank blueprint! Now look
on the left, Tank Movement Component. Fantastic! So how do we get this
IntendMoveForward() method? Let's look for it again. Still not there!
Can I grab a reference to the Movement Component? No! "Can't
find corresponding variable (Make sure component has been assigned to one)". Now listen, don't go
off to the blueprint and start trying to add variables, there is a variables section under the My Blueprint
menu, which you can also get to from the windows here. Please don't go off and try and add variables,
it's not how we want to do it, that's not going to work. Even if it does work, it's messy!
What we want to do is we want, on the Tank.h,
where we made ourselves a TankMovementComponent,
what we never did was say well OK this is a UPROPERTY,
and the minimum oops, property.. and the minimum that we want this
to be is (BlueprintReadOnly). So that's the new
thing that you've got, you can make a property of a C++ method readable
from blueprint. Just that change, making the TankMovementComponent pointer
(BlueprintReadOnly) should, fingers crossed let's go ahead,
should allow us to drag a reference from the
Movement Component. Not the Aiming Component, because look at the Aiming Component, it does not have such an annotation,
but it should allow us to drag a reference for the Movement Component right
here into the blueprint. Wonderful! And
then, from that Movement Component we can drag off, and now we should have a
contextual menu, which will allow us to say forward
or intend. OK, so
not quite, I can't quite do IntendMoveForward off of the TankComponent. Why not?
Let's have a look at this! And that's simply because I haven't decorated
IntendMoveForward with the relevant BlueprintCallable.
So it's a UFUNCTION, I know that because it's a
function. (BlueprintCallable)
and I'm going to say Category
= just a type to keep things together, Input).
I'm going to recompile and then I'm going to remove, I'm going to comment
out, in a minute, this in the Tank.h,
this (BlueprintReadOnly), because I don't think at this stage you'll be convinced that that's what made the
difference, because I hadn't yet put in the annotation here
which makes the whole method BlueprintCallable. So one step at a time, let's prove this works now.
If I now come off the TankMovementComponent,
I do have an IntendMoveForward. Alright, So let's delete the TankMovementComponent,
just to convince you of something. I want to go to the Tank.h,
I want to comment out this BlueprintReadOnly.
Oops sorry! In the Tank.h I'm commenting out the BlueprintRead
Only, that's right! Let's compile again! As this is the subject
to the lecture, I think it's quite important that you get what the effect of this is.
BlueprintCallable, of course, has made that method callable, but the problem is we can't
easily find the method. Let's see, let's just get the thing. OK let's look for the
method. We don't have the Intend method.
Try and drag the Movement Component in. We can't! Alright, so we can't get to this Intend
method. The key that unlocks all of this is making the
pointer to the TankMovementComponent BlueprintReadOnly. When that's the case and we
recompile, then suddenly instead of can't move the
Movement Component in which I'm getting now, as soon as the recompilation happens,
I will be able to drag a reference to the Movement Component. Once
I've got that reference I can come off it, and I can find
the IntendMoveForward method, only because we have
said that it's BlueprintCallable. Alright, so there it is!
Now you just wire it in! You wire the execution flow and the value flow,
compile your blueprint, I'm going to save everything,
play the game. Watch the console very carefully. I'm moving the left stick on my trackpad, look
between -1 and +1. Fantastic!
Lots to chew on there, but we have now got ourselves
a enriched tank blueprint, with a tank movement component
and the data that we need, to be able to drive the tank forward, coming through from
our control system. So congratulations, a big pat on the back, and I'll see you soon!